Now let us look at For loop. for loop is also a loop.
It is used for repeatation.
word for, for these many times, so thst's it, For means if you know the number of times you want to repeat
use for loop.  for loop is called as counter controlled loop it is called counter control loop means whenever
countingis involved for repeatation.
Then we use for loop.
I take an example and tell you what does it mean by counting.
Let us say I'll take a situation.
Let us take a situation.
Suppose you are preparing coffee.
You don't know how to prepare coffee.
Somebody has given you instruction and you're following it.
Now you are making your coffee for Four people.
Now the question is how much sugar do you should add.
You should add the sugar and mix it at the sugar and mix it, so here are 2 methods.
One method I can say go on adding the sugar and mixing it like half a spoon at a time and check if it
is becoming better sweet enough right.
If it is sweet enough, stop.
So when it is not sweet continue put the sugar not sweet continue, put the sugar not sweet, continue.
So this is where you are going to repeat how many times we don't know
We don't know
You have to check whether it is sweet or not if it is not sweet.
Continue, if it is sweet you should stop.
So this is not based on counting not check this one.
Now check this one.
No I am asking you to make coffee for four people and you asked me how much sugar to add I said four
spoons, one mix it, two mix it, three four that's all. so you will  count and do it,  you count and do it.
There are many examples in daily life.
We do it like this.
We do it.
We do the things for some number of times.
Sometimes we do the things we pick the things until we reach that point.
So when you have to repeat the steps based on counting and then use for loop.
So this example we have already seen, pinting numbers from 1 to N.
there we have to count only, count one print.
Then two print, then three print.
We are counting and printing and reaching at reaching till n.
And so for n times we are printing so this is the flow chart already we have seen this was the flow
chart for while loop I have shown it does the same flow chart now same thing can also be done using
for loop and is better if you use for loop because you know how many times you want to repeat.
So let us see the syntax for for Loop here.
for Loop will have three parts in it.
First is initialization, then semicolon, condition then semicolon, then updation three parts will be there
and then afterwards it will have its body.
Here he will process how it works how these three parts works we will understand this first we will
understand it's working first time initialization is done, first time, then condition is checked these
are the 2 things that will happen first time, if the condition is true then it will process so processing
let us say it third part, after this it will go to this updation fourth step then again it will check the condition
the condition if the condition is true then again it will enter it and perform this one process see
this time it will not do initialization so initialization is done only once and conditions check if
the condition is true then the bodie is execute updation condition body and again updation condition body.
this will be go on repeating as long as this condition is true.
So after this again it will perform this one then again this one then again this one then again this
one that again this then again this right it will repeat these steps, so now if you count these one two
three four five you can understand how it is changing so I just show it once again first second process
update condition process update condition process. updation condition process, update condition failed,
stop. this is how it works.
That's all that's working now why it has three parts.
Let us see in the diagram see for repeating this for some number of times we need initialization of
high we need that and the condition is definitely there then we need to update the value of 5, So
who is working like a counter here one two three four, I is working as a counter.
Yes that counter you can put all those statements here only so just let us look at this the same program
that we have seen in the previous  video for printing numbers. let us compare it with this one start, take a  no.
read a no.
then I assign one, where it is this.  here initialaization part then condition, this
the condition then updation this one is written here, though it is done after printing yes.
It will not be done in the beginning.
First it will check the initialize and check the condition print and then go back and update.
Yes it will happen that time only but we write all three things together here only so that we can say
that I starts from one go upto to n and every time I will be increasing by 1.
So everything is here in a single line we can read and understand.
So this is how for Loop is written. same previous program is written using for Loop.
And it looks more simple and more readable and easy to understand.
Yes insulation condition and updation are together at one place.
So this is the most commonly used loop in C++ programming.
So that's a level the for loop.
So there is a demo available for all the loops together I have given the demo you can more the demo
and you tried this program on your own machine and in coding exercise you may have to write on just
the loop there where the excercise is given. read the exercise properly understand it and solve it. all
are easy to understand but logic you have to write on the procedure you have to write on.
So that's all in this video.